Add doc about how to work around missing metric expiry. (#8948)
istio/istio.io: content/en/faq/metrics-and-logs/metric-expiry.md

---

> title: How to work around missing metric expiry with in-proxy telemetry?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How can I manage metrics for short-lived jobs?
```

Author: Updated, although it is not only for short lived jobs. It can be short lived deployment, or traffic goes out of the mesh and has random host header. So I make it `How can I manage short-lived metrics?`.

weight: 20
---

> First step is to identify the metric name and label which has high cardinality.
> Prometheus provides cardinality information at its `/status` page.
> Based on the labels which have high cardinality, there are several ways to reduce the cardinality:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics for short-lived jobs can hamper the performance of Prometheus, as they often are a large source of label cardinality. Cardinality is a measure of the number of unique values for a label. To manage the impact of your short-lived jobs on Prometheus, you must first identify the high cardinality metrics and labels. Prometheus provides cardinality information at its `/status` page. Additional information can be retrieved [via PromQL](https://www.robustperception.io/which-are-my-biggest-metrics).

There are several ways to reduce the cardinality of Istio metrics:
```

> * `destination_service` could cause high cardinality since for intra mesh traffic, destination service could fallback to host header if Istio proxy does not know which service the request heads to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Disable host header fallback. The `destination_service` label is one potential source of high-cardinality. The values for `destination_service` default to the host header if the Istio proxy is not able to determine which the destination service from other request metadata. If clients are using a variety of host headers, this could result in a large number of values for the  `destination_service`.
```

>    you can follow [metric customization](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/) guide to disable host header fallback mesh wide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Follow [metric customization](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/) guide to disable host header fallback mesh wide.
```

   To disable host header fallback for a particular workload or namespace, you need to copy the stats `EnvoyFilter` configuration, update it to have host header fallback disabled, and apply it with a more specific selector.
   [This issue](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25963#issuecomment-666037411) has more detail on how to achieve this.

> * If the label with high cardinality is not needed, you can drop is from metric collection via [metric customization](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/) using `tags_to_remove`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Drop unnecessary labels from collection. If the label with high cardinality is not needed, you can drop is from metric collection via [metric customization](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/) using `tags_to_remove`.
```

> * If the information provided by the label is desired, you can use [prometheus federation](/docs/ops/best-practices/observability/#using-prometheus-for-production-scale-monitoring) or [request classification](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/classify-metrics/) to normalize the label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Normalize label values, either through federation or classification. If the information provided by the label is desired, you can use [prometheus federation](/docs/ops/best-practices/observability/#using-prometheus-for-production-scale-monitoring) or [request classification](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/classify-metrics/) to normalize the label.
```

---
title: How can I manage short-lived metrics?
weight: 20
---

Short-lived metrics can hamper the performance of Prometheus, as they often are a large source of label cardinality. Cardinality is a measure of the number of unique values for a label. To manage the impact of your short-lived metrics on Prometheus, you must first identify the high cardinality metrics and labels. Prometheus provides cardinality information at its `/status` page. Additional information can be retrieved [via PromQL](https://www.robustperception.io/which-are-my-biggest-metrics).
There are several ways to reduce the cardinality of Istio metrics:

* Disable host header fallback.
  The `destination_service` label is one potential source of high-cardinality.
  The values for `destination_service` default to the host header if the Istio proxy is not able to determine the destination service from other request metadata.
  If clients are using a variety of host headers, this could result in a large number of values for the  `destination_service`.

>   For such case, follow [metric customization](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/) guide to disable host header fallback mesh wide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  In this case, follow the [metric customization](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/) guide to disable host header fallback mesh wide.
```

Author: Done.

  To disable host header fallback for a particular workload or namespace, you need to copy the stats `EnvoyFilter` configuration, update it to have host header fallback disabled, and apply it with a more specific selector.
  [This issue](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25963#issuecomment-666037411) has more detail on how to achieve this.

> * Drop unnecessary labels from collection. If the label with high cardinality is not needed, you can drop is from metric collection via [metric customization](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/) using `tags_to_remove`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Drop unnecessary labels from collection. If the label with high cardinality is not needed, you can drop it from metric collection via [metric customization](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/) using `tags_to_remove`.
```

Author: Done.
